- [Instructor] CI pipelines can automate your team's
quality assurance processes.
For example a pipeline can execute unit tests on demand
with each commit,
reducing the workload placed upon your team.
For this lesson we'll continue working with GitLab Runner
to build our simple Java project.
At this point, the codes in a GitLab repository and
we have a simple pipeline established.
Now we're going to expand that pipeline so that
it can execute and report on our unit tests,
as part of the build.
The results of the test will determine whether or not
the build passes or fails.
In order to add the test as part of the build,
we'll need to modify the gitlab-ci file.
Within the file we already have our build job and
we're going to go ahead and add another job named test.
Within the test job, we're going to add a script property
and then within that script property we're going to invoke
the maven test goal.
Now here's one of the useful things about GitLab Runner.
You can collect artifacts that are part of your job.
So for example, maven test is going to cause j unit to
build a test report.
We can grab that test report and include it within
the artifacts that are collected in GitLab.
To do that we add the artifacts property and then we
specify the path where the j unit test will be stored.
So a best practice here is to run your unit test,
find out where they're stored,
then grab that path and use it to
specify within the gitlab-ci file.
I've already done that ahead of time so I know that my
tests are stored within the path you see here.
With these changes in place in our file,
I'm going to go ahead and write the file and
then we're going to commit these changes.
And then we'll push them to the central repository.
Once again I'll use the root user and
provide the credentials and we see the changes are
now sent to the central repository.
And we can see that we have a pipeline that's pending.
We see that our build job has already executed and
now the tests are in progress.
We can click on the test and here we see the results.
And we have a problem, there's an error with our test.
It looks like one of them has failed.
Let's go take a look at the source code within our project
to see if we can fix our broken build.
So here we are at our source code and we can see that
we have an error that's causing our test to fail.
Instead of concatenating a and then b,
we are concatenating b to a.
We need to switch that around in order to fix our
concatenate function.
Let's go ahead and save the changes to this file
now that our bug is fixed and we'll go ahead and
then commit those changes.
We'll say we fixed the failing test and
we'll push those back to the central repository
so that we can launch our CI pipeline.
Now returning to GitLab you'll notice that with our
push to the remote we're now running our pipeline
once again.
The build job has passed and we're on to the test.
And this time the tests were successful.
We can also go in and view our report.
So here you can see we can pull down a zip file
that will contain our test results in the artifacts
that we provided within the build job.
So that concludes our lesson on conducting unit tests
with GitLab CI.
Using this approach you can be sure unit tests are ran
with each commit to your code base and the best part
is it's all automated.